okay I'm just going to jump in there
because the UN Secretary General is
talking and we just want to hear what he
has to
say sadly these sadly these numbers are
expected to rise as the attacks are
ongoing and many remain unaccounted
for in addition over 100 possibly more
Israelis civilians and military have
been reported captured by armed groups
including cluding women children and the
elderly some are being held hostage
inside Israel and many others have been
taken inside the Gaza
Strip meanwhile amas and Palestinian
Islamic Jihad have launched thousands of
indiscriminate rockets that have reached
Central Israel including Tel Aviv and
Jerusalem I recognize the legitimate
grievances of the Palestinian
people but nothing can justify these
acts of Terror and the killing maming
and Abduction of
civilians I reiterate my call to
immediately seize these attacks and
release all
hostages in the face of these
unprecedented attacks Israeli air
strikes have pounded
Gaza I'm deeply alarmed by reports of
over 500 Palestinians including women
and children killed in Gaza and over
3,000
injured unfortunately these numbers are
Rising by the minute as Israeli
operations
continue while I recognize Israel's
legitimate security concerns I also
remind Israel that military operations
must be conducted in strict accordance
with International humanitarian law
civilians must be respected and
protected at all times civilian
infrastructure must never be a
Target and we already have reports of
Israeli missiles striking Health
Facilities inside Gaza as well as multi
stored residential towers and a
mosque two un schools Sheltering
displaced families in Gaza were also
hit some
137,000 people are currently Sheltering
in unra facilities with the number
increasing as heavy shelling and air
strikes
continue I deeply distressed by today's
announcement that Israel will initiate a
Complete Siege of the Gaza Strip nothing
allowed in no electricity
food or
fuel the humanitarian situation in Gaza
was extremely dire before these
hostilities now it will only deteriorate
exponentially medical equipment food Fel
and other humanitarian supplies are
desperately needed along with excess for
humanitarian
Personnel relief and entry of essential
supplies into Gaza must be facilitated
and the UN will continue efforts to
provide Aid to respond to this needs and
I urge all sides and relevant parties to
allow United Nations access to deliver
urgent humanitarian assistance to
Palestinian civilians trapped and
helpless in the Gaza
Street and I appeal to the International
Community to mobilize immediate
humanitarian support for these
efforts the UN special coordinator and I
are engaging with leaders in the region
to express our concern our outrage and
to advance effort to avoid any spillover
to The Wider Middle
East even in these worst of times and
perhaps especially in the most trying
moments it is vital to look to the
long-term Horizon and avoid irreversible
action that would embolden extremists
and doom any prospects for lasting
peace this most recent violence does not
come in a vacuum the reality is that it
grows out of a longstanding conflict
with a 56 a long occupation and no
political ending sight it's time to end
this vicious circle of Bloodshed hatred
and
polarization Israel must see its
legitimate needs for security
materialized and Palestinians must see a
clear perspective for the establishment
of their own State
realized only a negotiated piece that
fulfills the legitimate National
aspirations of Palestinians and Israelis
together with their security alike the
longal vision of a two-state solution in
line with United Nations resolutions
international law and previous
agreements can bring long-term stability
to the people of this land and wider
middle east region thank you thank you
sir thank you very
much that was uh as spe given by the UN
Secretary General Antonio GES he was
addressing the situ situation there in
Gaza and Israel saying he's deeply
concerned by events recognizes the
Grievances on both sides but calls for
an end to attacks from both sides let's
bring in shab bransi he's live for us at
the United Nations she had what gueras
was saying is pretty much in line isn't
it with what one would expect to hear
from the United
Nations right but you I know you just
missed that the right the beginning of
that statement so just to just to
summarize what he said he said he he
just concluded an extraordinary meeting
of senior un leaders to discuss the
unprecedented developments in Israel and
the occupied Palestinian territory and
then he repeated what he said was this
quote utter condemnation of the abor
attacks by Hamas and others against
Israeli towns and Villages and I think
then you kind of pretty much you pretty
much caught up with with the statement
as you say yes what what does the UN
security Secretary General do he repeats
the the importance of international
humanitarian law he the the the need for
proportionality and the Geneva
conventions to be respected at a time
though he's he's doing this though when
clearly the Israelis and the Israeli
defense Ministry have already said they
are going to intensify the siege of Gaza
the defense Min the defense minister in
Israel called the Palestinians animals
so clearly this is directly a violation
already of international law and
humanitarian law and proportionality but
but we saw there the Secretary General
then sort of balancing things out by
saying well we're very concerned about
the siege we want to continue un
deliveries into into Gaza but meanwhile
even the Palestinians aspirations you
know while um while legitimate security
legitimate um legitimate grievances they
can't justify acts of Terror towards
Israel as well so it's called classic un
Secretary General even as we see the
utter flouting of everything that the
United Nations actually stands
for and sheab what about the UN Security
Council that's what we're hearing from
the Secretary General what are we
hearing from the
council nothing now nothing today we did
have that meeting those closed
consultations on on Sunday and it was
striking though whom we heard from we
heard from the US ambassador who had a
very different message to the UN
Secretary General his message was pretty
much just the green for the US for
Israel to do anything it basically wants
we heard from the Israeli ambassador to
the UN who wasn't at those closed
consultations who said that go all of
Gaza was part of the Hamas War Machine
and would now be a Target we heard from
the Palestinian Mission which said
effectively we've been warning you about
this might happen the Palestinians are
going to try and achieve their
aspirations by one way or another we
kept on saying give let's go the
peaceful route it's still not too late
for the peaceful route but you know we
did warn you over over and over again
here and we heard from the Chinese and
Russians the Chinese saying it would be
good to have a security Council
statement they're against any violence
against civilians the Russians saying
look this is just a result
of Decades of Us's stewardship of the
Middle East peace process we need an
immediate ceasefire and we need
immediate negotiations so it's
interesting and the UAE actually also
spoke the Ambassador there who who said
look we want an end to the violence and
end to attacks on civilians so those who
chose to speak in the main who aren't
either the Israelis or the US were were
were saying we need pause against in the
violence but the US and Israel clearly
had had a completely different message
okay sheab branzi joining us live from
the United Nations thanks very much
sheab